**Host:** Welcome back to Beijing, Mr. President. Thanks for the time.

**Trump:** Thank you. You know, you've said that this summit is a success. As you get ready to head back to Washington, what's the most significant specific thing you walk away from here for the US?

**Trump:** I think the most important thing is relationship. It's all about relationship. I have a very good relationship with President Xi and with China. And it sounds like something that doesn't mean anything, but it's everything. and deal making and problems. We've solved the two of us have solved a lot of problems between that somebody else would have maybe done very badly with. We've solved a lot of problems over the years. We have a very good relationship. Uh trade has been very strong. We're getting a lot of soybeans for our farmers. We're doing a lot of uh there's a lot of things happening with for the farmers. He committed to 200 Boeings, big ones. 777s and 737s and a lot of big uh big ones. Big beautiful Boeing planes. 200. That's a lot. Uh with a commitment that if they do a good job, and I told this to Boeing and General Electric, we're going to go the General Electric engines, which are great. If they do a good job, we could go up to 750. I mean, that's obviously a lot of investment going back and forth.

**Host:** You know, some Democrats, even some Republicans had some concerns about Chinese manufacturing on US soil. Is that happening?

**Trump:** Well, uh, if they don't want to pay tariffs, it could happen. Uh, just like it's happening with other countries and companies. We have now more money being invested in the United States than any country at any time in the history of the world, including China, which probably is second from about 10 years ago. We have $18 trillion in 11 months. Not the 12th month hasn't come in yet, the numbers. We have $18 trillion. If China wants to come in and wants to avoid tariffs, if they build here, for the most part, they're going to be hiring American people. If they want to avoid tariffs, they're going to build in the United States despite concerns about China operating inside the US. We have Japan is building massive Toyota, Honda, all of them. I mean, they're building massive plants all over the country. So if China wants to build for their cars, now I will tell you I put a 100% tariff on Chinese cars because I didn't want them coming into the country. If you take a only because they swamp you. They'll destroy your auto industry. And that's what's happening in Europe. And now they're saying we have to do a little bit like Donald Trump. Europe is being killed. They're being absolutely swamped by hundreds of thousands, millions of Chinese cars and Mercedes and BMW and Volkswagen. They're getting killed. So, uh, if you notice, we haven't had that problem. You know why? Because I have 100% tariff on cars made in China.

**Host:** And even though the Supreme Court ruling, you're going to still continue that tariff.

**Trump:** The ruling was just on a specific type of tariff. And you're going a different route.

**Trump:** Correct. I have the right to do the same tariff in frankly a little bit more complex way, but it's actually a better tariff. It's actually it's a more stringent tariff.

**Host:** I want to ask you about Iran and AI, but but China made clear that Taiwan is very important to them. And after your first meeting here, President Xi's spokesman put out a statement to the media through the media saying this. The Taiwan question is the most important issue in China US relations. If it is handled properly, the bilateral relationship will enjoy overall stability. Otherwise, the two countries will have clashes and even conflicts, putting the entire relationship in great jeopardy. You were still inside the meeting when that came out. That sounded almost like a threat. Was it was it communicated that way behind closed doors?

**Trump:** No. And no, it wasn't not at all. But it has always been their most important issue. And it's not a takeover. They just don't want to see this uh place. We'll call it a place because nobody knows how to define it. But they don't want to see it go independent. They don't want to do it. And uh I think they probably would do something pretty harsh and then they would be met harshly and bad things will happen. Uh so no, it's it's not that. It's We talked, by the way, last night. We talked a whole night about that issue. I think um I know more about Taiwan right now than I know about almost any country. He dominated the the talk. It it it's always been his most important thing from the day I knew him years ago. I've known him now 11 years, 12 years. Uh it's always been the biggest thing for him. Taiwan. Now with me, I don't think they'll do anything when I'm here. When I'm not here, I think they might to be honest with you. So, I'm not sure that they do anything if it remained as is, but they have somebody there now that wants to go independent. Well, it's a risky thing when you go independent. You know, they're going independent because they want to get into a war and they want to they figure they have a United States behind them. Uh, I'd like to see it stay the way it is. And I'll tell you something, I'll make a little news. I'd like to see everybody making chips over in Taiwan come to America because to be honest with you, I think it's the greatest thing you can do because it's a heated situation. There's no question about it. And uh as you know, we have massive amounts of chip companies now from Taiwan already coming in. We expect to have 40 to 50% of the world chip business by the end of my term. And uh I think it should be even more than that. I think all of those chip companies that if they're smart, they're going to start heading to Arizona and the places where they're building. That's going to solve your problem.

**Host:** Should the people of Taiwan feel more or less secure after your meetings with President Xi?

**Trump:** Uh, neutral. Neutral. This is Has the policy changed at all? No, nothing chang. No, nothing's changed. I will say this. I'm not looking to have somebody go independent and, you know, we're supposed to travel 9,500 miles to fight a war. I'm not looking for that. Uh, I want them to cool down. I want China to cool down.

**Host:** But you're waiting on approving billions of dollars of weapons for Taiwan. Is that moving forward?

**Trump:** Well, I haven't approved it yet. We're going to see what happens. I may do it. I may not do it. Yeah.

**Host:** What's your your hinge point?

**Trump:** Well, I'm not going to say that, but I may do it. I may not do it. But we're not looking to have wars. And we're if you kept it the way it is, I think China's going to be okay with that. But we're not looking to have somebody say, "Let's go independent because the United States is backing us, you

**Host:** So, President Xi probably liked that you haven't approved the weapons to Taiwan.

**Trump:** Um, I would say like is maybe too strong a word because he thinks I could do it with just the signing of my signature unlike Biden who couldn't sign his signature. Um, no, I'm holding that in oyance and it depends on China. Depends. It's it's a very good negotiating chip for us, frankly. It's a lot of weapons. It's 12 billion dollars. a lot of weapons. But, you know, when you look at the odds, China is a very, very powerful big country. That's a very small island. It's, you think of it, it's 59 miles away. 59 miles. We're 9,500 miles away. Uh, that's a little bit of a difficult problem. With all of that uh being said, you know, if you look at the history of Taiwan, Taiwan was uh developed because we had presidents that didn't know what the hell they were doing because if they would have put tariffs on chips coming in, it would they would have never left. Everything was about Intel and everything was about our chip companies. They stole our chip industry. So, I've said that for years. I said, you know, for years they stole our chip. If we would have had one of our presidents just say, "We're going to say going to put 100% chip. You can leave. You can build in Taiwan, but we're going to you sell it back into the United States. We're going to put 100% or 200% tariff. We would have never lost a chip. We lost the chip industry. It's all coming back." And I do say this, uh, Taiwan would be very smart to cool it a little bit. China would be very smart to cool it a little bit.

**Host:** They what both call it on AI. Was there any agreement about any kind of guard rails that China and the US might agree to so that AI doesn't go crazy?

**Trump:** Well, we talked about it. Yeah, we talked about Look, AI is mostly a great thing. Mostly uh and we're leading China. We talked about that. We're leading China by a lot. Um I gave the right for AI to build their own electric producing plants. That's a big deal. they can manufacture their own electricity now which we could never have gotten from the grid and that and now you have these very rich companies headed by lots of geniuses building electric plants because of that we are leading China by a lot in the AI race now it's mostly the two of us other nations are in it but mostly and whoever wins the AI race and we're going to win it I mean if we're smart we're going to win it if we're not smart we're not but we're leading by a lot we talked about that last President Xi was very surprised at how well we've done with uh AI because they thought you know when it started they they took this gigantic lead and we now have caught we are substantially ahead of them in AI but do you think there'll be some buyin set up guard rails or something I think there could be we talked about it but you know at the same time we're competing so it's a little hard to say oh gee let's put on we're competing with each other and we're going to put guard rails it doesn't work that way too too much But AI, if you look at medicine, some of the things they're coming up with medicine, some of the cures they're coming up with that people would have never gotten there, it's going to be mostly a good thing. But we we want to have some guardrails.

**Host:** You said that the uh President Xi said he would offer assistance on Iran and specifically I also said we don't need assistance. You don't didn't ask for it. You said he he was offering it specifically to open the straight of war moves. What what do you think he will do?

**Trump:** I think he's been very nice about it. He gets 40% of his oil there. He didn't send anybody. He didn't send ships. He didn't send ships with big fat guns on them that we would have had to repel. We would have. The good thing is we're the I built during my first four years the most powerful military in the world. We have the most powerful military in the world. That was shown in Venezuela which took one day. Actually took 48 hour. I mean took let's see about 48 minutes. I think it was 48 minutes and 13 seconds and it was over. And it's a strong country with a strong military, but it went very quickly. And now, by the way, uh we have made a fortune with their oil. And so have they they've made more money in the last eight months than they've made in the last 10 years. And we're partic we're really, you know, participating in the profit. Venezuela, but obviously is a different kind of a thing. But we're doing probably almost as well as I I don't know how you can do better. They have no navy. They have no air force. It's all destroyed. Their air force is destroyed. But yet they're talking a big game. You know, Iran's foreign minister said the straight talking big is open to commercial shipping only if they cooperate with the Iranians. They're not talking big game. You know who's talking to big game? The fake news media. If you read the New York Times, you would think that we're losing militarily. Think of it. They have 159 ships. Everyone is now on the bottom of the sea. Every one of them is gone. Uh they had mind droppers. They call them mind droppers. Nice thing. Who has 22 mind droppers? And mind droppers are all gone. Now they have what they call fast boats. You know they are runabouts like you'd buy for your fantastic son if you wanted to buy them a nice boat and they put a machine gun on it. Okay. Uh most of them are knocked out. We knock them out just like we knock out the drug dealers.

**Host:** You like to talk about cards. It seems like they're playing with a bad deck to your point. No deck, but they're still playing.

**Trump:** No, the only thing they have going is a fake press. They know how well we're doing militarily. And then at the request of a very nice group of people from Pakistan who are very close to Iran. I didn't go that final. They said, "Could you stop? We're going to make a deal." And we really had the confines of a deal. No nuclear. They were going to give us the dust, nuclear dust. They all the everything we wanted. And every time they make a deal, they the next day it's like we didn't have that conversation. And that's taken place about five times. There's something wrong with them.

**Host:** Actually, they're crazy. And you know what? Because of that, they cannot have a nuclear weapon because the president of China agrees with you on that. And he agrees with me on that. He agrees with me that he wants to see it end. He'd like to see it end. Uh he would like to help. If he wants to help, that's great. But we don't need help. And you know the problem with help? When somebody helps you, they always want something on the other side. That's the way help works.

**Host:** Hard to believe, but it was one year ago today in UAE interviewed you and I asked you about Iran. How do you get to a solution there?

**Trump:** Oh, we'll get 100%.

**Host:** You think so?

**Trump:** Well, well, we're going to have a solution one way or the other. It's either going to be violent or not violent. And I far prefer nonviolent. Obviously, you've explained perfect answer. you you've explained why you did what you did because of the nuclear threat for Iran. Um but no, it's obviously not Venezuela. It's different.

**Host:** Well, it's different but and but you did say it was going to be fairly quick. I mean, you said it numerous times.

**Trump:** Venezuela was sending drugs in at a level that was terrible and they did something that was a terrible mortal sin. They emptied their prisons into our country. Okay, that was terrible. And that was different. Uh, this one is I guess you could say worse. It's That was pretty bad. You don't get much worse. Emptying your prisons, drug dealers, murderers into our country. That's pretty bad. But you could say this is worse. In this one, they are trying to make a nuclear weapon. I've stopped it twice. They would have had it two years ago. They would have used it already on Israel and the rest of the Middle East. Look at all the missiles shot at people that didn't think they were even involved. Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE. Look at all I mean Bahrain, uh, Kuwait, they got all shot at. Nobody thought they were even involved in this thing. They would have they would have used a nuclear weapon on the Middle East. One thing I'll make clear right now, they said very specifically, because I deal with them. I said, "We're taking the nuclear dust." They said, "You can have it." I said, "We're going to go get it. We're not going to let you take it." They said, "We can't take it. We don't have the capability of taking it." I said, "Why?" I said because it was hit so hard. I mean the mountain literally collapsed on it. A granite mountain.

**Host:** So why isn't that good enough?

**Trump:** Just so you know. Well, what just Well, I mean, if you want if your goal was to set back, it is good enough. But you know what? It's not good enough public relations wise. Uh it's important, you know, it's important. Uh it's probably good enough for a different reason, though. Space Force, which I created, has got cameras, nine different cameras in space on that site. We know everybody that moves there. We can read the name of a a person. Uh we can need if if if his name is Muhammad something and most of them are Muhammad. You can guess about 50% right. Uh we can read his name right on his tag from space. It's the most amazing thing. Anybody that goes near that space, we have it tagged. They haven't done anything there. And if they did, we would hit them very hard. So two days ago in speaking to the Iranians, they told me it was hit so hard they actually said I must say that there's only two countries that could get it. US and China. Right? They said us and China that they don't have the capability of getting it because it was so obliterated. The term I used was obliterated. The fake news said, "Oh, maybe somebody can get it." They actually said if they wanted to get it, they couldn't. So uh that's not good enough for me. I want to get it.

**Host:** So why are we where we are? Did you underestimate the pain tolerance that Iran had?

**Trump:** I didn't underestimate anything. We hit them unbelievably hard. Look, we left their bridges. We left their electricity capacity. We can knock that all out in two days. Two days. Everything. Uh we left Car Island other than I said hit it except for the valves where the oil comes out because when you hit that that means you're going to lose a little oil. But one thing is happening amazingly. Ships are floating up to Texas and Louisiana and they're going to Alaska and they're loading up with oil like we've never seen before.

**Host:** Americans want to know when it's over though, right?

**Trump:** Yeah. Look, Vietnam lasted 19 years. Uh Iraq was like 10 years, Korea was seven years. Uh another one was 14 years, another one was 12 years, another one was nine years. We're in there for two and a half months. The other thing they talk about, so we lost tens of thousands of soldiers in Vietnam. We lost tens of thousands of soldiers in practically every war. I've lost and I I w I wish we'd lost none because I know those parents. I spoke to them. We lost 13 soldiers in two wars.

**Host:** China got three tankers out this week uh filled with Iranian oil because we allowed that to happen. You did. We allowed that to happen before this trip. Gas prices in America are still high uh painfully high for a while.

**Trump:** They're going to drop like a rocket once it's over.

**Host:** Painfully high though now and and could be creeping higher than Biden. Excuse me. lower than Biden and much lower than people thought they'd be.

**Trump:** This inflation number is going up.

**Host:** You're right. It's much lower than President Biden's was, but it's going up under you. Uh the numbers are you can imagine Democrats and political pundits uh jumped all over this statement that you made the other day. You were asked on the when you were leaving. What extent are American financial situations motivating you to make a deal?

**Trump:** Not even a little bit. The only thing that matters when I'm talking about Iran, they can't have a nuclear weapon. I don't think about American financial situation. I don't think about anybody. I think about one thing. You cannot let Iran have a nuclear weapon. That's all.

**Host:** That's right. That's a perfect statement. Make it again.

**Trump:** You can imagine how many people stop the sound bite at I don't think about America's financial situation. So, what's your response to that framework?

**Trump:** It's very simple. When people hear me say it, everybody agrees. Short-term pain. It's going to be short-term pain. But the pain is much less than people thought because people thought that the oil would go up to $250. You know, it was $99 yesterday. $99 a barrel. I thought it might go up to 200. I was okay with that. Not that I wanted it, but you cannot let them have a nuclear weapon. They will use it on us. They'll start off with Israel, wipe it out, the Middle East, wipe it out. It'll go to Europe. You know they have a missile that goes to Europe. You saw that. Okay. They have a missile goes to Europe. I have done Europe a very big favor when you tell somebody you're going to have to pay a little more. Not that much more. A little more for gas for a very short period of time because we want to stop the threat of being blown to pieces by a lunatic by a crazy person and they are crazy using nuclear weapons. Everybody says that's fine. And that question was a fake question and they didn't put my full answer. I totally care. Look, I inherited high prices and they came in with a word affordability. My first press conference two days in and Biden didn't do press conferences. He'd go for years without doing because he was incapable of doing it. He was an incompetent person. But my first question was about eggs. Eggs have quadrupled. What are you going to do? I said, "Eggs? Tell me about eggs. Tell me about the problem. Eggs have gone up four times." They said, "I'll take care of it." By the way, I did take care of it. But they came up with a word because they are good. They're rotten with policy. They're horrible politicians. In many cases, they're we have a new name. They're Democrats. I call them Democrats. Not Democrats. They're Democrats. A lot of low IQ people. You have Ilhan Omar saying World War 11. She said world. She was referring to World War II. She said World War 11. These people are destroying our country. And we have to stop. And you know, President Xi said something yesterday. He talked about and he wasn't referring to the last 15 months. He talked about America is a nation in decline. And I said, "You're right." But he wasn't talking about because he said, "What you've done in 14 15 months is a miracle." When you hear Trump voters, Alex says, "I voted for you three times." He just he can't handle the costs and he's not for this foreign conflict. I hate it. Here's he's not for the foreign conflict. But Roy in Pennsylvania, he's a retired farmer. He can't handle the fuel going up and he's just he says he's going to come down very fast. And so look, disappointed. I'm just telling you they say to him, Roy, Alex, we got a problem. We just hit the highest stock market price ever. By the way, then when I went in, now again, it's higher with the war. It's higher than it was when I went in. Think of that. The 401k is at their alltime high. There are more people working right now in the United States of America than at any point ever in the history of our country. Detroit Free Press, a state that you won. While champagne flowed on the trading floor and President Donald Trump celebrated record highs, pessimism spread like wildfire outside Wall Street's doors, straight into the kitchens of average American families. There is this sense that, you know, something is changing. Whether they can hold on and believe that you're going to get them to

**Trump:** No, you I have to do what's right. I said to my people, we just hit 50,000 on the Dow. That wasn't supposed to happen for five or six years. I did it in my first year. We just hit 7,000 on the S&P. That wasn't that was even less of a chance of the than the Dow. We just have we have it was just announced 401ks are at the all-time highest that they've ever been. All these things happened. And I said, I'm sorry to do this to you, but we have to stop this group of very crazy people. Now, those people are gone. They've been eliminated. The second group has been eliminated and some of the third group. In a way, we've eliminated so many leaders that it's almost I'm trying to figure out who the hell are we dealing with, right? Who are you dealing with? But well, we're dealing with people that I think are right, but they're afraid to make a deal. They don't know how to make a deal. They've never been put in this position before.

**Host:** So, you're going to hold out until they do.

**Trump:** Well, I'm going to do what's right. I have to do what's right. But the straight should be open, right?

**Trump:** It should be open. Look, see, to stop the straight is very easy. All they have to do is say, "We dropped a mine in the straight someplace, you know. See, you're at a little disadvantage, but that's okay. Uh, the straight will be open. They will not have a nuclear weapon, and the world will go on, and you will see gasoline prices drop. Energy prices generally drop like no." Don't forget, they have a lot of boats that are loaded up with oil that are going to bring the oil out as soon as this is over. And I think it's going to end fast. They've been holding up the world for many, many years with the strait. You know, they've used this many, many times. They said, "We'll close the straight." They've closed it in the past. They use it as a weapon. They're not using it as a weapon with me. And what they did, and actually what President Xi said last night, sort of smiling about it, he said, "Well, they close us rate and then you close them." But you think they're going to capitulate sometime soon?

**Trump:** Yeah. Oh, sure. I have no doubt.
