# Luxury goods are Europe’s global tax on vanity

How to trade cachet for dollars and yuan

February 26th 2026

Europe’s economy may be as flaccid as a damp baguette, but you wouldn’t know it if you were window-shopping in the posher arrondissements of Paris. Say you are looking for a bone-shaped leather trunk designed to carry two bowls to dispense dog food, admittedly one of life’s lesser essentials. Louis Vuitton happens to have just the thing, yours for a mere €15,000 ($17,700). Those on a tighter budget might opt for a Hermès rocking horse, probably no more necessary but a far sight cheaper at just €4,600. Feeling a bit broke? Settle for Christian Dior flip-flops, a snip at just €410—each.

Unless Charlemagne’s fellow Europeans all won the lottery and forgot to tell him, something feels off. Who buys this stuff? The answer, for some years, has been: “not Europeans”. The luxury industry that got its start selling fripperies to Milanese counts and Parisian mistresses now more often services Floridian property developers, Arab sheikhs or Chinese high-rollers instead. As a business trick, it is rather clever; Bernard Arnault, the founder of LVMH, purveyor of Louis Vuitton dog-food cases, vintage champagne and other such un-necessities besides, was for a time the world’s richest man. But Europe’s continued dominance of the gilded trifles market (about 80% of global luxury brands come from there) tells you something about its lingering claim to cultural supremacy. It is, perhaps surprisingly, a place still able to bestow cachet—for a price. Flogging luxury goods is one of the few fields of business in which Europe excels (if one excludes the crafting of regulation). In an ironic twist, an egalitarian continent with an ever-declining share of global GDP hosts an industry that thrives on inequality and bombastic money-making. For how many seasons more can this alchemy of aspiration endure?

The trinkets Mr Arnault and his acolytes at Chanel, Prada and Rolex are flogging are not mere ornaments. Rather, they are slices of aspiration, of a European way of life—albeit one that exists largely in the imaginations of well-heeled foreigners. If Europe is an open-air museum, its most deep-pocketed visitors are made to exit through the Gucci gift shop. MAGA types may ridicule Europe for its supposed descent into a bacchanal of bureaucrats and boat-people. But they still crave the European imprimatur which they believe elevates bling from gaudy to classy. (Mr Arnault was one of few Europeans invited to the inauguration of Donald Trump last year.) China is swamping Europe with cheap industrial goods, but its economic elites are eager to distinguish themselves with imported Loro Piana calfskin loafers (€1,050).

Once, plutocratic Chinese and Americans could tell themselves that splurging on Saint-Laurent cufflinks or a Dior couture dress was a way to play-act at being a fancy Parisian. But this contention is now as out of date as shoulder pads. Your columnist knows plenty of fancy Parisians, none of whom carries dog-bone cases or gives any thought to owning a Dior dress. Relentless price rises have put many of the baubles flogged by Cartier or Fendi beyond the reach of Europe’s affluent middle classes. The bedazzled South Koreans waiting in line at luxury stores near the Champs-Élysées have seemingly not noticed the absence of Europeans in those queues. Locals have better things to do.

Even as luxury goods have become unattainable for those French and Italians meant to desire them, they have become near-ubiquitous for the foreign moneyed masses. Luxury houses sell the idea of scarcity, with hordes of publicists explaining that the years-long wait for a Birkin handbag is due to the lack of sufficient artisans to craft these pinnacles of refinement. This is a fairy tale stitched in fine silk. The luxury-goods industry has roughly tripled in size since 2000; its €358bn in annual sales—half a Walmart or Amazon, give or take—betrays how thoroughly mainstream supposed exclusivity has become. Fifty years ago, Louis Vuitton had but two outlets, both in France. These days it has two stores in Ningbo, China’s 34th-biggest city. Exclusive, moi?

Perhaps one should laud Europeans, who saw a group of mugs willing to wait years for the right to buy a €50,000 Swiss watch and obligingly took their money. Once upon a time, the church in Europe sold indulgences to shorten the buyers’ stays in purgatory. Now luxury’s high priests sell trinkets meant to shorten their clients’ stay in social obscurity. America exports F-35s. South Korea exports K-Pop. Europe has found a way to export self-worth.

There are worse scams than exploiting the inferiority complexes of the global have-yacht class. If aspiring billionaires are going to spaff thousands to fend off a mid-life crisis, why not make sure they buy European? Such hand-stitched bilking creates plenty of well-paid jobs. Europeans can make Chinese feel classy and simultaneously finance their welfare states.

Alas, there are signs the alchemy may not endure. Talk in the Monogram Industrial Complex is of a period of “normalisation”, a luxuriant way of saying sales are slipping. Mr Arnault is now only the world’s seventh-richest man, dethroned by a half-dozen American tech bros. Some über-rich are spending more on luxury, for example splurging on tailored limited editions. But many are turning to spending on experiences instead, says Luca Solca of Bernstein, a broker. And posh hotels can be found far beyond Europe.

More worrying yet is the idea that the global elite beyond Europe’s shores will one day flaunt their wealth without paying French or Italian firms a tribute for the privilege. A few American brands, from Coach to Ralph Lauren, have made inroads into the luxury world, albeit in its lower reaches. More recently Chinese purveyors of high-end frivolities have emerged with a patriotic pitch for locals to redirect luxury spending towards home-grown firms. Europe’s velvet tax on vanity may eventually be passé.■



