# Mapping China’s holiday rush

How travel during the Spring Festival is changing

February 26th 2026

THE RUSH home for the Spring Festival’s festivities each year, known as the chunyun, is a cultural moment of sorts in China. Many have tried to capture a sense of the hubbub. In “Lost On Journey”, a comedy released in 2010, Li Chenggong, an uppity businessman, wants to get home to Changsha for the Lunar New Year. Terrible weather forces him to switch from a first-class ticket on a plane to a hard seat on a “green-skinned” slow train. Jostled by migrant workers, uproar surrounds him as babies cry, passengers eat and suitcases tumble. Eventually he meets a happy-go-lucky dairy worker with whom he reluctantly goes on an adventure.

Such scenes were once an accurate depiction of the experiences of millions as they travelled to reunite with loved ones. But changes in the chunyun since speak to new social trends in China. This year workers got February 15th to 23rd off for celebrations—a day longer than usual—and The Economist watched as they journeyed to and from their holiday destinations. Our number-crunching uses data that are currently available; more will appear over the coming weeks.

China’s population is shrinking, yet the getaway rush keeps growing. Officials monitor travel over a 40-day period around the break and expect a record 9.5bn trips to be made this year, up from 8.4bn in 2024. One reason for the rise is that the Chinese are increasingly travelling not just to visit family and friends in their hometowns (though most do), but are also squeezing in a little tourism.

Given testing economic conditions, holidaymakers are spending less per person than they did before the pandemic, says Goldman Sachs, a bank, but overall tourism revenue increased by 5.7% year on year (adjusted for the longer holiday). Thrifty sightseers and bargain-hunters are more common. Fujian and Hubei provinces saw juicy increases in duty-free sales, according to research by Citigroup, another bank. So did Hainan, the sub-tropical island-province which seems to have lured those keen for a spot of winter sun. “Reverse chunyun”, where elders visit their children in the big city instead of the other way round, also trended on social media.

Modes of transport are shifting, too. Officials reckon that four-fifths of people use private transport, including cars and vans. And train travel is getting more popular. A decade ago 11% of journeys that used commercial transport involved a train; last year this stood at 28%. This time the share is expected to be higher as China’s high-speed rail network continues to expand. There were 2,000km of track in 2010 and 50,000km at the end of 2025. Many cannot afford to board the zippiest trains, however. Videos this year also purport to show cheaper, older green-skinned trains packed with people. (Authorities quickly scrubbed them off the Chinese internet and decried them as fakery generated by artificial intelligence.)

High-speed rail has slashed travel times across the country and may be one reason why it appears that the chunyun is being compressed. The Economist has downloaded data from Baidu Migration, a platform run by China’s biggest search engine, which crunches user-location data from its maps app and related services to work out how many people are on the move at any particular time. It shows that the busiest travel day before the new year is creeping closer to the actual day: in 2019 this was four days before, in 2023 it was three days and this year it was just two days (see chart). It is also possible that workers want to toil for longer so as to earn more before the big break.

Much travel still takes place east of the Heihe-Tengchong line (see map), which geographers use to divide China into its densely and sparsely populated parts. But our calculations from Baidu’s data, which do not account for modes of transport, show that people are travelling shorter distances (see chart). The share of trips taking place within a province was 62%, up from 54% in 2020. It all suggests that China is developing regional economic clusters and migration mostly takes place within these—in line with the government’s urban planning. The most popular journeys connect big economic centres and their populous but obscure satellite cities. The busiest route was from Xi’an, where the Terracotta Army resides, to Xianyang, a city of 4m just 24km away.

Travel during the chunyun will continue to evolve. China is starting to allow electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft for commercial use as part of its push for a “low-altitude economy”. One company based in Shanghai has started offering flights to nearby cities this year, allowing the well-off to take to the air for destinations just a short hop away. That would come as a relief to the fictional Mr Li. The sequel to “Lost On Journey” may one day feature not green-skinned trains chugging along the ground, but flying cars whizzing through the sky. ■



